# Rails Template

## Origins

This repo is forked from mattbrictson/rails-template, and has been customized to
set up Rails projects the way Ackama likes them.

## Description

This is the application template that we use for Rails 6 projects. As a
fabulous consultancy, we need to be able to start new projects quickly and
with a good set of defaults.

For older versions of Rails, use these branches of @mattbrictson's original repository:

- [Rails 4.2.x](https://github.com/mattbrictson/rails-template/tree/rails-42)
- [Rails 5.0.x](https://github.com/mattbrictson/rails-template/tree/rails-50)
- [Rails 5.1.x](https://github.com/mattbrictson/rails-template/tree/rails-51)
- [Rails 5.2.x](https://github.com/mattbrictson/rails-template/tree/rails-52)

## Requirements

- Yarn: Some old versions of Yarn have encountered issues, if you have problems try v1.21.0 or later

This template currently works with:

- Rails 6.0.x
- PostgreSQL
- chromedriver

## Usage

This template assumes you will store your project in a remote git repository
(e.g. Bitbucket or GitHub) and that you will deploy to a production environment.
It will prompt you for this information in order to pre-configure your app, so
be ready to provide:

1. The git URL of your (freshly created and empty) Bitbucket/GitHub repository
2. The hostname of your production server

To generate a Rails application using this template, pass the `--template` option to
`rails new`, like this:

```
rails new blog \
  --no-rc \
  --database=postgresql \
  --template=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ackama/rails-template/main/template.rb
```

_Remember that options must go after the name of the application._ The only
database supported by this template is `postgresql`.

Here are some additional options you can add to this command. We don't _prescribe_ these,
but you may find that many Ackama projects are started with some or all of these options:

* `--skip-action-mailbox` skips the setup of ActionMailbox, which you don't need unless you are receiving emails in your application.
* `--skip-active-storage` skips the setup of ActiveStorage. If you don't need support for file attachments, this can be skipped.
* `--skip-spring` - you _probably_ want to use this. Spring is great at reducing the start time of Rails processes once
  one is already running, but also tends to cache things more than it should and mask issues (or worse, issues being resolved). We have found that Bootsnap, which is also generated by default takes care of a decent startup time optimisation without the drawbacks of spring.
* `--skip-action-cable` - if you're not doing things with websockets, you may want to consider skipping this one to avoid
  having an open websocket connection without knowing about it.
* `--skip-turbolinks` - in a similar vein to spring, Turbolinks is great and providing some user feedback as pages load
  and speeding up perceived load time, however comes with drawbacks that usually outweight the benefits.
* `--webpack=react` - this will preconfigure your app to build and serve React code. You only need it if you're going
  to be using React, but adding this during app generation will mean that your codebase supports webpack and React
  components right from the first commit.

If you just want to see what the template does, try running `docker build .` and
then `docker --rm -it run` the resulting image. You'll be dropped into Bash and
can explore the generated app in `/apps/template-test`. The image doesn't
include PostgreSQL right now, so database operations don't work.

## Installation (Optional)

If you find yourself generating a lot of Rails applications, you
can load default options into a file in your home directory named `.railsrc`, and
these options will be applied as arguments each time you run `rails new`
(unless you pass the `--no-rc` option).

To make this the default Rails application template on your system, create a
`~/.railsrc` file with these contents:

```
-d postgresql
-m https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ackama/rails-template/main/template.rb
```

Once you’ve installed this template as your default, then all you have to do is run:

```
rails new --database=postgresql blog
```

## What does it do?

The template will perform the following steps:

1. Generate your application files and directories
2. Ensure bundler is installed
3. Create the development and test databases
4. Commit everything to git
5. Push the project to the remote git repository you specified

## What is included?

#### These gems are added to the standard Rails stack

- Core
  - `puma` - application web server used for all environments
- Configuration
  - [dotenv][] – in place of the Rails `secrets.yml`
- Utilities
  - [rubocop][] – enforces Ruby code style
- Security
  - [brakeman][] and [bundler-audit][] – detect security vulnerabilities
- Testing
  - [simplecov][] – code coverage reports
  - `webdrivers` - auto-installs headless Chrome

#### Other tweaks that patch over some Rails shortcomings

- A much-improved `bin/setup` script

## How does it work?

This project works by hooking into the standard Rails [application templates][]
system, with some caveats. The entry point is the [template.rb][] file in the
root of this repository.

Normally, Rails only allows a single file to be specified as an application
template (i.e. using the `-m <URL>` option). To work around this limitation, the
first step this template performs is a `git clone` of the
`ackama/rails-template` repository to a local temporary directory.

This temporary directory is then added to the `source_paths` of the Rails
generator system, allowing all of its ERb templates and files to be referenced
when the application template script is evaluated.

Rails generators are very lightly documented; what you’ll find is that most of
the heavy lifting is done by [Thor][http://whatisthor.com/]. The most common methods used by this
template are Thor’s `copy_file`, `template`, and `gsub_file`. You can dig into
the well-organized and well-documented [Thor source code][https://github.com/erikhuda/thor] to learn more.
